# Saddle FAQ

## Answers to your questions about AMMs, tokenized bitcoin, the Saddle app, and more.

Still have questions? [Join our Discord.](https://discord.gg/hX8RZFBW9R)

---

### What is Saddle?

Saddle is an automated market maker (AMM) for pegged value crypto assets.
Saddle enables anyone holding a pegged value crypto asset to trade in between
other pegged assets with minimal slippage, ensuring users don’t lose value
while trading.

### What is tokenized bitcoin?

Tokenized bitcoin is BTC that has been “sent” from the Bitcoin blockchain to
the Ethereum blockchain. BTC is held in a deposit contract that then “mints” a
token on Ethereum that has the same value as regular BTC but can be used to the
full capability of an ERC-20 token. Some examples of tokenized bitcoin include
tBTC, renBTC, WBTC, and sBTC.

### What are pegged value crypto assets?

Pegged value crypto assets retain the same value relative to one another
regardless of market conditions. Stablecoins, for example, always are valued at
$1 USD. If you are trading in between DAI and USDC, you would expect to receive
precisely the same amount of one as the other. Saddle ensures minimal slippage
during these types of trades to help users get the most out of their trades.

Another type of pegged value crypto asset is tokenized bitcoin. Different types
of tokenized bitcoin - tBTC and renBTC, for example - should always retain the
market price of regular BTC, and therefore should always retain the same price
as the other while on the Ethereum blockchain.

### Why is Saddle launching with tokenized bitcoin?

We believe strongly that a “BTC-first” launch of Saddle will supercharge the
DeFi ecosystem by unlocking bitcoin’s ability to be fully integrated on
Ethereum as an ERC20 token. Bitcoin is the largest cryptocurrency by market
capitalization, and the amount of tokenized BTC on Ethereum has been exploding

- the supply has increased ~135X in 2020. Despite this growth, tokenized BTC
  is often not a priority when it comes to features and support. We believe
  bitcoin deserves to be treated as a first-class citizen in DeFi.

### Will Saddle support other asset pools? When?

Yes! We will support trading between and among other pegged value crypto assets
like stablecoins and ETH-based tokens. We anticipate these pools to go live in
Q1 or Q2 2021.

### Does Saddle have a token?

Saddle does not currently have a token.

### What is Saddle’s guarded launch? Who can participate?

Saddle is launching with Proof of Governance to protect our users with certain
limits and discourage sybil attacks. Initially, there will be a pool TVL cap of
X BTC and a per-address deposit limit of Y BTC. These limits will be raised
every 1-2 weeks.

For LPs to qualify for PoG, an address must have demonstrated active network
participation in one of the following ways:

- On-chain voting or delegation (MKR, COMP, YFI, YAM, CRV, UNI, UMA, Moloch DAO)
- Off-chain voting on [Snapshot](https://snapshot.page/) (all protocols)
- Staking SNX and minting sUSD

A full list of eligible addresses is available here. PoG is temporary and will
be phased out in the future.

We are implementing this guarded launch to establish a more controlled
environment that will allow us to ensure a stable launch and remain responsible
with users’ funds in a more controlled environment. Our objective above all
else is to ensure the application performs to its expectations, users’ funds
remain safe, and our community of supporters, developers, and users remain
confident in our ability to successfully and fairly launch.

_The guarded launch does not apply to the AMM. Users will be able to trade in
between tokenized bitcoin types immediately at launch._

### Why do I get the message “XXXXXX” when I try to use Saddle?

Saddle is going live with a guarded launch known as Proof of Governance (PoG).
With PoG, the only users who will be able to serve as liquidity providers on
Saddle are those who have participated in governance processes on at least one
of the following: MKR, COMP, BAL, YFI, YAM, CRV, SNX, and UNI.

If you see an error message, it is because the wallet you are using has not
been used in one of the governance processes listed above. Try connecting
another wallet, or wait for the guarded launch to end.

### Who can use Saddle?

At launch, **everyone** will be able to use Saddle’s AMM to trade in between
tokenized bitcoin pairs.

At launch, the only people who will be able to provide liquidity to tokenized
bitcoin pools are those who have participated in governance processes on at
least one of the following: MKR, COMP, BAL, YFI, YAM, CRV, SNX, and UNI.

### How do I use Saddle?

Head to the [Saddle App](https://saddle.exchange) and start using it now!

### What are Saddle’s liquidity provider rewards?

The Keep Network team has committed X KEEP a week as reward incentives for
liquidity providers. At the TVL cap, that means LPs will be earning up to ~Y%
APY on their deposits! [Learn more](https://keep.network/) about the Keep
network, KEEP, and your opportunities to stake KEEP for additional APY.

### What is tBTC?

tBTC is the first truly decentralized, secure tokenized bitcoin solution. tBTC
is secured by the Keep network, a blockchain solution to privacy. The Keep
network stores the keys of minted tBTC in decentralized “keeps”, thus
eliminating centralized weak points.

### I can’t provide liquidity to Saddle because of the guarded launch. When will I be able to start using Saddle?

The guarded launch will be phased out over time, at which point anyone will be
able to provide liquidity to Saddle pools.

In the meantime, anyone can use the Saddle AMM to trade in between tokenized
bitcoin types.

### What are the fees for using Saddle?

At launch, there is no fee to withdraw your liquidity from Saddle pools.
Eventually, we will implement diminishing fees. With diminishing fees, your fee
falls to 0bps over the course of a month after you first provide liquidity.

### Who built Saddle?

Saddle is built by DeFi natives with prior years of developer experience at
Web2 companies like Uber, Amazon, and Square. You might have interacted with
our founder Sunil (aka [devops199fan](https://twitter.com/devops199fan)) in the
YFI community (he’s a multisig signer), or used tools created by members of our
team, like [yieldfarming.info](https://yieldfarming.info/) by John (aka
[Weeb_Mcgee](https://twitter.com/Weeb_Mcgee)).

### Is Saddle safe?

Saddle has been audited by Certik, Quantstamp, and Open Zeppelin. Read the
audits [here](https://github.com/saddle-finance/saddle-audits).

### How can I keep up with Saddle?

[Discord](https://discord.gg/hX8RZFBW9R)!
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/saddlefinance)!
[Telegram](https://t.me/saddle_finance)!
[Github](https://github.com/saddle-finance)!
[Medium](https://medium.com/saddle)!
